# Forge Annual Parley 2018 Questions

Gist version: https://gist.github.com/Asherslab/b071438a6503dd76d0cf09bf35804e56

## Forge 1.13

#### 1.13 General
- [ ] What's the progress on 1.13? 

- [ ] Have you faced any difficulties with 1.13?

- [ ] ETA on 1.13 Stable Forge?

- [ ] Do you expect this to be the last big rewrite forge will ever need?

- [ ] What's the status of the new Coremod system? Will it be in 1.13? (If we can, might be good to talk about the downsides of coremodding). Can we do Coremods without java?

- [ ] Is there any progress towards Java 9 and 10 support? If so will it be compatible with Java 8? Will there be support for the Java Module system?

- [ ] Will forge consider the need of Plugin Server players? (E.G. Hypixel) and add some hooks to their favor?

#### 1.13 Performance

- [ ] Will the Overhaul allow for increased game loading speed? If so, how much?

#### 1.13 Modding

- [ ] Are there any exciting improvements to the vanilla Codebase?

- [ ] Any Breaking changes in Forge 1.13? and anything that will not be changed? Any new Q.O.L features for modders?

- [ ] Are JSON entity models planned? If so, ETA? If not, Reasons?

- [ ] Is serverside I18n/localization gone? if so, are ITextComponet.getFormattedText() and getUnformattedText() client side only now?

- [ ] Will oredict get replaced by tags? If so, how would that work with the fact that tags have namespace?

- [ ] How usable is the datapack system for modders? I.E. can we use it for machine-recipes or etc?

- [ ] There was talk of Scala being removed from forge previously, Is that still happening? And when?

- [ ] What new stuff can we do with `ItemMap`s?

- [ ] Will there be a new Annotation Processor for the new (proposed) mcmod.info?

- [ ] Are tweakers in the new ModLauncher? And if so: Will Forge allow other Tweakers to provide a mod container through JSONs or Jar Meta information?

- [ ] Will Loot Tables and recipes support Config-Dependent item registration? (I.E. Disable recipes or Items depending on Config values). Will code based recipes be removed? 

###### Modding Worlds:

- [ ] Are there any new World Generation features?

- [ ] Is the IWorldGenerator able to be replaced by Vanilla code?

- [ ] Will there be a system that can use JSON/Vanilla structure NBT for WorldGen?

- [ ] Would consideration be given to patches that remove the world build height / depth restrictions? and can compatibility be maintained with Vanilla if so?

- [ ] If above is yes, would this apply to negative heights?

###### Modding Commands: 

- [ ] What changes will there be with custom commands?
 
- [ ] Will there be support for Child Commands (Similar to CommandTreeBase)? Or will it be a PITA to have SubCommands?

- [ ] What can we do witht he new Locate Commands?

###### Modding Fluids:
(In light of the new Water Physics)

- [ ] Has the creation of Modded liquids changed much? 

- [ ] Will Modded Liquids be wrapped as `IForgeRegistryEntry`'s?

- [ ] Will the new phyiscs be available to Modded Blocks and custom block models?

- [ ] Will fluidstack be rewritten to match the current itemstack implementation?

#### 1.13 Forge Gradle

- [ ] Will there be a Script/Sonetging to adapt to the new FG version?

- [ ] Will gradle version be updated in forge MDK by default to 4.7? (For slightly increased performance)

#### 1.13 Configuration
(This is apparently a large topic!)

- [ ] What configuration format has been decided on?

- [ ] Will configurations be integrated with datapacks? (So that they can be a part of server modpacks easily)

- [ ] Will there be a better De/Serializer for the Configurations? (Support for custom values in Maps and the such)

## Education and Communication
What can we do to further Educate about the following subjects:

- [ ] New or Improved Features, such as Jar in Jar dependencies

- [ ] Recommended practices, such as not using coremods as an answer to everything

Can we improve Communication by using the following suggestions?

- [ ] Forge has used the same TXT Changelog file on their website for quite sometime, are there any plans to improve this to a more structured format? At that, can we get a Markdown version?

## MCP

- [ ] Is there an Update in progress for MCP?

- [ ] Why is the community not more involved in the update process of MCP mapping?

## Other:

- [ ] What are the plans for forge after 1.13?

- [ ] Will F.A.I.L. ever be Un-Abandoned? Or is it eternally doomed to fail? (Pun Intended)

- [ ] On a scale of 1-10, How much do you want Project Valhalla to finally arive?

